so the hollywood summer movie season is
drawing to a close and the prevailing
message at the summer seems to be
according to industry professionals at
least that people are getting tired of
the summer blockbuster with a few
exceptions like x-men days of future
past guardians of the galaxy in the new
Ninja Turtles movie almost every medium
to large budgeted movie has
underperformed especially at the
domestic box office this is leading a
lot of people in Hollywood to wonder
what went wrong why aren't people going
to see movies anymore and why aren't
they going to see movies more than once
the economy isn't nearly as bad as it
was in 2009 and that was the year I
avatar made almost 3 billion dollars so
what the hell is going on here well the
answer is pretty simple really people
aren't sick of blockbusters they're not
sick of fantasy movie science fiction
comedies horror superheroes westerns
disaster movies vampires werewolves or
giant monsters people are sick of paying
good money to see bad movies the first
example that comes to mind is this
summer's amazing spider-man 2 back in
2002 Sony basically gave the superhero
genre the shot of adrenaline it needed
with Sam Raimi's spider-man and followed
it up in 2004 with what was probably the
best superhero movie at the time
spider-man 2 and those movies made a ton
of money for the studio but after a bad
end of the original trilogy and a reboot
that didn't seem to have legs the
amazing spider-man 2 seemed be grasping
at straws okay the movie wasn't terrible
but it wasn't nearly as good as any of
the other Marvel inspired movies that
came out this year watching it you could
tell that Sony was more interested in
building up a world that they could spin
off into a cinematic universe than they
were with telling a strong engaging
cohesive story the Rhino was horrible
electro seemed like he belonged in a
joel schumacher Batman movie and the
Green Goblin should have been saved
until the third installment granted Gwen
Stacy's final scene was fantastic really
heartbreaking but then they had to go
and ruin it with another scene with that
god-awful rhino and Sony movie goers
noticed these imperfections why would
they go again why would they tell their
friends to go why should they you made a
subpar movie that despite some great
work from Andrew Garfield and Emma Stone
seems like nothing more than a soulless
cash grab before you launch the Spidey
Cinematic Universe was it fun sure
what I pay to see it again probably not
so of course now the press is saying
that people are sick of blockbusters and
many saying that there is now spider-man
fatigue give me a break or not sick a
spider-man we're sick of you using him
as a money-printing machine without
actually caring about the characters in
the world are we sick of blockbusters no
are we sick of superhero movies
obviously not but it's not like it
couldn't happen there was a science
fiction explosion after Star Wars came
out in 1977 every producer a movie
studio wanted to throw their hat in the
ring a few good movies came out of it
like Ridley Scott's alien but there was
a whole lot of crap turned out of
Hollywood science fiction mass
production machine they went from B
movies to Z movies and people got sick
of it Hollywood didn't care about the
quality of the movies as long as they
got as many of them out while star wars
still burn bright eventually people
stopped going to see these trashy
knockoffs though and Hollywood said
obviously people aren't interested in
science fiction anymore and they stopped
green-lighting sci-fi movies Blade
Runner was a sad casualty of this a
fantastic movie that just happened to
get released right around the time when
audiences had had enough of the
Hollywood crap fest it happened again in
the 1980s with slasher movies Halloween
officially ushered in the age of the
slasher in 1978 followed by friday the
13th and 1980 and a nightmare on elm
street in 1984 so Hollywood started
churning out slasher movies by the Dozen
and like the science-fiction trend
before them they dropped lower and lower
in quality until people stopped going to
see them they lived a bit longer because
of the direct video market but they died
to Hollywood said that the slasher was
dead until screen came along in 1996 and
breathe new life into the genre only to
have its throat cut quickly again
because of the hundred scream clones
that came out in the coming years horror
had another renaissance in the early
2000s wood saw but then had countless
torture porn copycats rushed to the box
office and history repeated itself yet
again the exact same thing happened to
westerns back in Hollywood's golden age
and fantasy movies after the release of
Lord of the Rings has this happened with
superhero movies hell no has this
happened to spider-man not quite yet but
I think sony has to be careful it's not
the spider-man has over saturated the
market is that the last three spider-man
movies just haven't been that good x-men
went through this a few years ago The
Last Stand made a ton of money off the
goodwill from x2 but people hated it it
took almost a decade for the x-men
movies to get
back into the audience's good graces
over the last couple of years Warner
Brothers has been shocked that their DC
adaptations haven't blown the box office
wide open it's not that people don't
like your characters it's that you don't
do a good job bringing them to the big
screen except with Batman most of the
time the saddest thing about all of this
is that it's we the audience that
basically gets punished for Hollywood's
mistakes we lose out on seeing some
amazing movies because Hollywood thinks
that their genres aren't in right now
science fiction with the exception of
Star Wars has been on the outs as far as
Hollywood is concerned since the early
eighties but avatar the highest grossing
movie of all time is a science fiction
movie guardians of the galaxy opened
well above expectations and is the
definition of science fiction full bore
fantasy movies were verboten for decades
then Along Came lord of the rings no
matter what genre is if there is care
put into the production if there's
relatable characters a great story some
real emotion we will go see your movie
and if it's awesome we will go see you
twice 34 times hell I went to see The
Dark Knight five times while it was in
theaters and I drag people with me every
time we all do this if we love a movie
we tell our friends and family that they
need to see it it just has to be good so
Hollywood start paying attention we're
not sick of spider-man or slasher movies
or science fiction or fantasy or
anything else we're sick of bad movies
make some good ones we'll go see them
okay so what do you guys think do you
agree with me that no matter what the
genre as long as the movies good people
will go see it or do you think that
people really do get sick of genres no
matter how good the movies are like
subscribe and leave your comments below
and I will see you with a new video soon